Let's take a look at parsing a JSON payload into separate fields.
The first thing I'm going to do is check to make sure that Kafka is running.
So I'm going to type ps -ef.
That command will give me a list of processes running and
I see several Java processes which tells me in my system,
I know this means Kafka is running.
That will work in your workspace as well.
The second thing I usually will look for is
two processes that have the word Spark in them.
The terminal output is being truncated here after the AMD 6,
but if the output would continue beyond it,
you'd see the word Spark.
The same thing will show up for this line,
you would see the word Spark as well,
so I know I have a Spark worker and a Spark master running.
So that means I'm ready to start coding and then I can
submit my application to the Spark cluster right away.
I've been given a JSON format that gives me
information about the status of a truck or the vehicle status.
So this information is contained in JSON format,
I want to read it from Kafka and pass it into separate fields.
I've imported most of the things we're going to work with.
So the first thing I'm going to do is create a SparkSession.
Actually, no, let's create the schema first.
So I'm going to create a variable that's called vehicle status schema,
and this will be a StructType.
When I call it StructType,
I pass an array of struct fields.
The first struct field will match the first field in my JSON sample.
So I'm going to use truck number,
and that will be the name of the field.
It needs to match exactly.
This is a StringType,
so I'm going to use the StringType.
The next field is a destination,
which is also a string.
The next field is miles from shop,
which is an integer.
You will notice I haven't imported the integer type,
so I'm going to do that.
Again, the name needs to match exactly and this is an integer as well.
So I'm going to reuse that import that I did earlier.
Now that I've created my schema,
I'm ready to start reading data from Kafka so that I
can later convert it to regular fields.
I'm going to take my SparkSession and use it to create a session.
I'm going to call the name of it vehicle status.
It doesn't really matter what it's called,
but I like to make things meaningful.
I'm going to take the SparkContext and set my log level to as low as I want,
which is the WARN level.
Now I am going to use the SparkSession to read information from Spark.
So I'm going to create a new data frame called vehicle status raw
streaming data frame and I'm going to get the data from Spark.
Because Spark is my way of connecting to Kafka in this case.
So I'm accessing my read stream,
I'm setting my format to Kafka.
What's the next thing I need to do?
I need to set the option for the bootstrap servers.
I only have one, so I'm going to just give it one
and the name of the topic must match exactly,
so it needs to be vehicle dash status,
and that's the name of the topic that's being created by
my simulation and I want get all the data.
So I'm going to say earliest for
my offset and then I'm going to load that data frame from Kafka.
The data frame from Kafka is in binary format,
so I want to convert it out of binary to strings.
So I'm going to create a new data frame.
That one is not named raw streaming,
it's just called streaming.
That way I know which one has which information.
I'm going to use this, select XPR function to cast my keys as strings.
The key in this case is truck number.
Then I'm going to cast my value as a string as
well and I'm going to call the value vehicle status JSON.
Now that I've got a data frame that has string data,
it still has just a giant field full of JSON values.
So this one field has all of these fields in it and I want to get it out of there,
into separated fields because then I can query on them.
So let's do this.
We are going to take the schema I've created and use it to parse the JSON.
So first thing we do is start with the data frame that has the JSON in it.
Then we're going to call the dot with column method.
We're going to say the column we're going to override is called vehicle status JSON.
Then we're going to say, let's use the from
JSON to populate that and in the from JSON call,
where is the JSON located?
It's in this field.
Where is the schema?
It's in the vehicle status schema.
Then that returns a data frame that has a bunch of subfields or nested fields,
so this vehicle status JSON essentially has
subfields underneath of it and each of those fields are here.
So this field would be called vehicle strategy,
some dot truck number and so on.
So I'm going to select all of those fields.
This is a little different from SQL because usually
SQL doesn't have the concept of subfields.
But here we can say,
I'm going to select vehicles status JSON dot star,
which vehicle says JSON is a field itself.
So this isn't a table name and we're saying vehicle status JSON field dot star,
which includes all the subfields.
So that returns those as a separate data frame,
and I wanted to put that data frame in a view that captures the fields in that way.
I'm going to call create or replace TempView.
I'm going to name the view vehicle status.
Now I'm going to do a query on it.
I've got a couple of fields here that I could query based on.
I have the miles from shop and then I have the odometer reading.
I'm going to say I want miles from shop that's over 100.
So how would you do that in SQL if you had
these three fields and a view called vehicle status,
well, that's exactly how we're going to do it.
So we're going to run a SQL statement that's
exactly the same and when we run the statement,
it's going to populate another data frame.
Let's use Spark dot SQL to run our select statement.
What's the statement we want to do?
We're going to look for everything from vehicle status,
and how would I say that I want the miles from shop over 100?
I'd say where miles from shop greater than 100.
So that should capture that subset of data.
Now I want to put that data on the terminal so I can read it.
I'm going to say writeStream dot output mode to put it line by line on the console,
I'm going to do a start method that starts the entire Spark application.
Then I'm going to say awaitTermination.
I'm going to save that and we do have
a script that will run the Spark application for us.
It's in home workspace Spark.
Can you find the script?
Which one do you think it would be?
It's going to start with submit and then how about submit vehicle check-in?
That looks like the right one.
So home workspace, Spark,
submit vehicle, check-in, dot sh,
loading all our libraries.
What do we have?
We use submit vehicle checking,
we wanted to submit vehicle status.
So we're watching the output.
We should see it soon after the cursor starts blinking.
Let's look at the miles from shop on these.
We've got truck number destination miles from shop odometer reading,
and let's make sure they're all over 100. They are.
So the select statement has now given us
a subset of data and we've been able to use SQL against JSON,
which is a very useful thing to do.
I'm going to stop this application because I'm done
running it and I'm going to hit "Control C."